libvirt UPI provisioning, HAProxy and DNS documentation (#29)
openshift/okd: Documentation/UPI/libvirt/libvirt.md

# Install OKD 4 on top of an UPI libvirt+kvm configuration

This guide explains how to configure libvirt+KVM to provision Fedora CoreOS and install OKD on top of it.

## Assumptions
- The host OS is CentOS 7;
- This guide will not configure the load balancer or the DNS server. Check for [LB_HAProxy.md](../Requirements/LB_HAProxy.md) and [DNS_Bind.md](../Requirements/DNS_Bind.md) if you want to configure them;
- Fedora CoreOS will still use DHCP for obtaining the IP, but with a MAC address-based reservation into the libvirt network configuration, and therefore there is no need for a standalone DHCP server;
- You already downloaded the OKD installer and command line tools from the Release section of this repository, and installed them into a path added to the `PATH` environment variable.

## Pre-tasks

> 1. Download from Fedora CoreOS website:

Author: Fixed with c643ef8

> 1. Download from Fedora CoreOS website:

Author: Fixed with c643ef8

Here how you can configure Direct Kernel Boot in `virt-manager`:
![Direct kernel boot](Images/direct_kernel_boot.png)

**NOTE:** CoreOS installer automatically reboot the server after installation, so when the installation of Fedora CoreOS is finished shut down the VMs, otherwise the installer will keep installing the OS.

After the installation disable the Direct Kernel Boot option, as we don't need it anymore.

At this point you can add the VMs MAC address to the network configuration in libvirt, just like the example [above](#configure-libvirt-network). Stop and start the network after that:
```
virsh# net-destroy openshift
virsh# net-start openshift
```

### Start the bootstrap server
After every server in your cluster was provisioned, start the bootstrap server.
By default, Fedora CoreOS will install the OS from the official OSTree image, so we have to wait a few minutes for the machine-config-daemon to pull and install the pivot image from quay.io. This image is necessary for the kubelet service, as the official Fedora CoreOS image does not include hyperkube.
After the image was pulled and installed, the server will be rebooted by itself.

> When the server is up again wait for the API service and the MachineConfig service to be spawned (check for the ports 6443 and 22623). Check also for the status of the `bootkube.service`.

Reviewer: Some more services to watch:
* `machine-config-daemon-pull` pulls MCD image and extracts binary to `/usr/local/bin/machine-config-daemon`
* `machine-config-daemon-first-boot` updates FCOS to latest FCOS with CRI-O
* `crio-configure` sets up CRI-O config
* `crio` would run CRI-O daemon on bootstrap node so that it could be used by kubelet
* `kubelet` would run a temporary kubelet
* output of `podman ps -a / podman logs / podman inspect` and `crictl ps -a / crictl logs / crictl inspect` to find out details about podman/crio containers

Author: I think checking for such services is too much low-level for the average user that simply wants to bootstrap an OKD cluster.
Yours are really useful suggestions, @vrutkovs, but I think it would be better for they to be mentioned and properly explained in a boostrap troubleshooting-related guide. What do you think?

I wrote about checking for the ports, because they are the simple basic thing that anyone could check for, while waiting for the cluster to be bootstrapped.

Reviewer: Yeah, perhaps these kind of details should be mentioned in detailed guide. https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/docs/user/troubleshooting.md is probably a good starting point

Author: OK, then, if you agree, I'd resolve this conversation as improving the troubleshooting guide should be considered a different PR.

Just like the bootstrap server, the control planes and the workers will boot with the official Fedora CoreOS image, that does not contains hyperkube. Since hyperkube is missing the kubelet service will not start and so the cluster bootstrapping.
Wait for the machine-config-daemon to pull the same image as the bootstrap server.
The servers will reboot themselves and after that they will try to join the cluster, starting the bootstrapping process.
After reboot `rpm-ostree status` should show something like:
```
[core@okd4m0 ~]$ rpm-ostree status
State: idle
AutomaticUpdates: disabled
Deployments:
● pivot://quay.io/openshift/okd-content@sha256:830ede6ea29c7b3e227261e4b2f098cbe2c98a344b2b54f3f05bb011e56b0209
              CustomOrigin: Managed by machine-config-operator
                 Timestamp: 2019-11-15T18:25:12Z

  ostree://fedora:fedora/x86_64/coreos/testing
                   Version: 31.20191217.2.0 (2019-12-18T14:11:27Z)
                    Commit: fd3a3a1549de2bb9031f0767d10d2302c178dec09203a1db146e0ad28f38c498
              GPGSignature: Valid signature by 7D22D5867F2A4236474BF7B850CB390B3C3359C4
```

> Wait for the finish of the installation and then login to the console with the kubeadmin credentials, or configure an additional identity provider.

Reviewer: * use `openshift-installer wait-for bootstrap-complete`
* approve node CSR via `oc get csr -ojson | jq -r '.items[] | select(.status == {} ) | .metadata.name' | xargs --no-run-if-empty oc adm certificate approve`
* `oc patch configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io cluster --type merge --patch '{"spec":{"managementState":"Managed","storage":{"emptyDir":{}}}}'` to set internal registry storage to emptyDir (not sure if this is required anymore)
* `openshift-installer wait-for install-complete` to wait for all operators to complete

Author: For the third point, I think it would be better if in the long term we add a reference to a storage-focused guide that explains how to configure your storage backend, if you want something more specific than `emptyDir`.
Talking about me, I never configured the image-registry operator for not having a persistent storage.
Even in my non-production installations I always configure a persistent storage, by configuring a NFS server on my host OS.

I always considered `emptyDir` as something to use when you want to create a temporary cluster. But this is just my point of view.

Reviewer: Right, lets add a note about this:

----
By default registry would expect a storage provider to provide an RWX volume, see https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.2/registry/configuring-registry-storage/configuring-registry-storage-baremetal.html. Use the following command to use `emptyDir` instead:
`oc patch configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io cluster --type merge --patch '{"spec":{"managementState":"Managed","storage":{"emptyDir":{}}}}'`

Author: Should be fixed with 0b9ec15

Author: Fixed some indentation errors with 03ae740

For the `image-registry` cluster operator things are getting a bit more tricky.

By default registry would expect a storage provider to provide an RWX volume, or to be configured to be ephemeral.

If you want the registry to store your container images, follow the [official OpenShift 4 documentation](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.2/registry/configuring-registry-storage/configuring-registry-storage-baremetal.html) to configure a persistent storage backend. There are many backend you can use, so just choose the more appropriate for your infrastructure.

If you want instead to use an ephemeral registry, just run the following command to use `emptyDir`:  
`$ oc patch configs.imageregistry.operator.openshift.io cluster --type merge --patch '{"spec":{"managementState":"Managed","storage":{"emptyDir":{}}}}'`

**NOTE:** While `emptyDir` is suitable for non-production or temporary cluster, it is not recommended for production environments.

#### Final stage
Now that everything is configured run the OpenShift installer again to wait for the `install-complete` event.

`$ openshift-install wait-for install-complete --log-level debug`

> After the installation is complete you can login into your cluster via WebUI with the `kubeadmin` credentials stored in the same path of the `kubeconfig` file, or use the `oc` utility.

Reviewer: Lets be a bit more specific here
```suggestion
After the installation is complete you can login into your cluster via WebUI using `kubeadmin` as login. Password for this account is auto-generated and stored in `auth/kubeadmin-password` file
```

I'm not sure if `oc` can get you the kubeadmin's password, afaik the cluster stores a hash of it in the secret. `oc` can be used to replace the password, but its probably too complex for install guide

Author: No actually I was saying that you can both use the kubeadmin user from the WebUI or just stick with `oc`, that was previously used with the `kubeconfig` file.
I'll explain that better.

Author: Ok, I fixed the sentence in 197d634
Now I think is better.

Reviewer: Ah, right, that change looks good
